---
layout: post
title: Week 2!
---


**WHAT DID YOU DO THIS PAST WEEK?** Most of the week was focused on going over the first project, Collatz. Even though the classes were slower, I appreciated how Downing took the time to go over the project to really ensure students understood what was required. The pace and detail shows just how the class is geared towards ensuring all students have a good understanding of the material. Going over the requirements made me realize how similar the workflow is to Google's and that's pretty exciting to know that what I'm learning is directly applicable to actual programming in a work-setting. I've been called on twice so far, and while it stressed me out in the moment, it has slighly helped me feel more comfortable with the whole cold-calling aspect of the class.

**WHAT'S IN YOUR WAY?** My note-taking skills have never been great, but it has gotten me through my lecture-style classes. Downing's classes are more unique and my note-taking method has shown a poor performance. I have a tendency to obsessively write down most of what a professor says, but for OOP it feels as if it's a much better method to sit and really soak in all the details. Additionally, I've been having trouble focusing on the textbooks readings on my laptop, there's just something about reading virtual materials that just don't work for me. I've already ordered the textbook so now it's just waiting for the book to come in and printing out the reading until then.

**WHAT WILL YOU DO NEXT WEEK?** I'm going to try out different note-taking method over the next couple of weeks to see what would be the best fit for OOP. For this upcoming week I'm going to try to shift away from writing down everything and instead try to sit and really absorb the material, taking notes only on small details and general ideas. Then I'll take a look through the notes that Downing puts up on piazza at the end of the day to reinforce the material. I'm also going to work on finishing the first project up.

**PICK/TIP OF THE WEEK?** If you have a windows laptop and some space to spare, dual-booting your laptop is a great investment. I first dual-booted my laptop for FRI and didn't think I'd use it much, however, the more classes I took, the more I began using the Ubuntu partition. The terminal and layout of Unix OS feels easier to use for development and there are more software tools for Unix operating systems. Even with development tools that can be found on windows too, usually it's simpler to install and setup on a Unix system. Also most internships use Unix systems so learning and getting comfortable beforehand will be extremely helpful.
*Links: [Dual-booting explained](http://www.howtogeek.com/187789/dual-booting-explained-how-you-can-have-multiple-operating-systems-on-your-computer/). [Website I used to learn how to dual-boot](http://www.howtogeek.com/214571/how-to-dual-boot-linux-on-your-pc/).*
