---
layout: post
title: Week 10!
published: false
---


**WHAT DID YOU DO THIS PAST WEEK?** There was a lot of work and very little sleep that went on this past week. Started the next OOP project, Darwin, and it's taken me a while to wrap my head around not using getters and setters. Nonetheless it's exciting that we're finally starting to use a lot of the OOP concepts we've read about on an assignment. Coding in an object-oriented way is much harder than I first assumed, especially when my first thoughts usually include using a getter/setter. I also realized that I'm a slow coder and I need to work harder to keep up with my partner. Registration was also a thing this week and as hectic as always. By the time my registration opened the classes I really wanted were closed. Fingers-crossed that I will get off the waitlist for Mobile Computing, but the chances are pretty low considering I'm 32nd on the waitlist. Also trying to get into Computer Networks with Bryan, I'm 5th on the waitlist so there's more hope but confused by why the status of the list is "off"??? Overall next semester's schedule is looking pretty nice with no classes on Friday. Exam 1 grades came out this weekend and I passed, yay. I do want to do better on the next one, will start going over concepts earlier (hopefully) and will be more prepared since I now have a better feel for what to expect on exams.

**WHAT'S IN YOUR WAY?** As always, I'm behind. I feel like there's not anything particular holding me back other than the usual time constraints/other work that I have to finish.

**WHAT WILL YOU DO NEXT WEEK?** Algo exam is this upcoming Wednesday, really need to study for that. There's a 3-5 page paper due Thursday I need to work on. 312 Exam 2 is on Wednesday so I'll have to find time for grading on Thursday. For this class, got to spend more time digesting Darwin and finish coding the project up since it's due Thursday!! MLH Prime is around the corner, unsure if I'll be able to go yet but I really want to. I haven't been able to attend any hacks this semester so it'll be exciting if I am able to find time. Also Hacktoberfest is ending on Monday (October has flown by so fast!) so I have to finish up some pull requests. Hopefully along the way, or maybe next weekend I'll be able to start a coursera on machine vision.

**PICK/TIP OF THE WEEK?** Ever want to try testing a concept or have a question about how something works, want to write some code and run it, but don't want to deal with configuration and setup to run the code? Yes? Well me too! For me, even though we've been told to go home and write some code to try out the concepts learned in class, I haven't been doing so because I didn't want to deal with all the configuration to get the code to run (creating a file, saving the file, writing the code, then compiling it, then opening up the output file to see if it worked, etc, etc). It was just too many steps and that hurdle was too high for me. I missed the days of BlueJ where it had the tiny code pad where we could just type code, push enter, and it'd run everything for us. And now I've realized there's a way to do something similar by using [CoderPad](https://coderpad.io/)! Just pull up a CoderPad, choose the language you want to use, and you'll have a piece of base code to get you started. Everything will already be configured and you can easily just test your code by clicking the "RUN" button in the top left. You can see the output on the right and will let you know if there are any errors you need to fix. Super easy. Using CoderPad let's you avoid having to go through and create a file, save the file, and all those other steps. All you got to do is open up a window, type in some code, and click run. After I realized this, I've been using it to play around with the various coding concepts I've been iffy about in class.
