---
layout: post
title: Week 14!
---

**What I learned:** I've learned a lot more C++ concepts than I thought I would and understand so much more than I would have trying to pick up the language myself. The development tools we used have also been intersting to learn and useful beyond the classroom. Readings is where you'll learn more of the OOP conceptual stuff while in-class learning is more going over the random aspects of C++ and understanding how to use the power C++ gives you. One thing I do wish we did more in the class was talk about the OOP concepts in the reading more and including these concepts a little earlier in the projects. OOP concepts are pretty exciting and the ways you go about thinking of implementation is different from all the classes I've experienced so far. 

**Lectures:** Be prepared for cold-calling. Yes, it'll be scary at first and you'll (possibly) freak-out a little each time Downing goes to pick a new name, however, it's great. The lecture style makes sure that you are paying attention in class and is much better than the usual lectures you'll get with every other class. Downing genuinely seems to want his students to understand the concepts and is very open to answer questions both during, after, and outside of class. If you don't know the answer to his question, Downing isn't out to completely destory you. He'll be nice and try to guide you to the correct answer. For the most part lectures are all about going through examples, understanding what the code means, and implementing classes based on a set of information given. This was extremely helpful because it forces you to implement things and get some practice in during class. This way you're hopefully attempting and trying to think of a solution before one is given to you. OOP is definitely not the class you want to be skipping or assume that you can pass just by looking at the resources posted online.

**Quizzes:** I have a love-hate relationship with quizzes. These are the worst things for me, definitely what's mainly bringing my grade down. They take a little while to get used to and can be very detail-oriented (something I'm not good at myself). The details almost always what trip me up, but they're really good for hammering down the weird aspects of C++.

**Exams:** Exams are only on writing-code and creating classes similar to what we go over during lectures. You are allowed a cheatsheet on the exam and one of the best things you can include are the class signatures for what we implement during class. There's no point in including notes from the reading, better to focus on details specific to what will help you code. 

**Projects:** Projects are where the easy points are. Follow the directions to the T and you should be a-okay. Do note that only half the points come from getting the correct ouput, the other half is following the workflow (which was the most difficult to set up for the first project). So you can still do very poorly if you don't follow the directions of how you should be coding. For the most part, all the projects except for the last few are pretty average. The first projects are all mainly getting used to and understanding how C++ works. It's during the the last two projects (Darwin and Life) that you are doing more object-oriented programming, which is a lot more exciting. Hardest thing about the last couple are wrapping your brain around the idea of no getters or setters. Other than that, the only other pain is writing tests. So. many. tests. I've written more tests for this class than I have during my internship over the summer. As much as it isn't fun, I'm glad that I've gotten more exposure to test-writing.

**Overall:** I love the class. Sure it isn't perfect, but it was enjoyable for what it is. 10/10 would take again, lived up the hype of "before you graduate you must take a Downing class" hype. I'm glad I decided to take the class and will definitely try to take SWE to experience Downing-style teaching again. Even though most people say take SWE >> OOP, I like OOP a lot and would highly reccomend it. Definitely go to office hours when you can, I only went a couple of times but enjoyed it. Biggest regret is that I pass-failed the class thinking that I wouldn't do well after the first exam. Honestly the class isn't too terribly time-consuming and definitely gets better as the semester goes on. Everything is completely doable and your grade will be fine as long as you go to class and do the extra credit as a buffer. Lectures are engaging and you'll learn so much! Completely recommend it to all those on the edge :)
