---
layout: post
title: Week 3!
published: false
---


**WHAT DID YOU DO THIS PAST WEEK?** This past week was a heck of a lot of stress, mainly from all the work that I had due for the week. I definitely should have started earlier on the project because I encountered a lot more problems than I had initially anticipated. The hours when travis was down didn't help me much at all, only added to the stress and further cemented the appeal of starting earlier and managing my time and work better. 

**WHAT'S IN YOUR WAY?** OOP textbook finally came in the mail during the weekend! Hopefully it helps me stay on track of everything more and prevent me from getting distracted since I won't be on a device with internet access. Time management is still an issue (really it always seems to be an issue) but I'm trying to fix that, slowly. My note taking skills, though slightly improved from the week before, still isn't the most optimial. I still end up writing too much, but at least I feel like I'm soaking in more information. This week I'm going to try to reinforce the information learned by printing out the daily lecture posts and writing down notes from what I remember in class on it. Hopefully it'll help me see how much I remember and how much I need to go over various parts of the material.

**WHAT WILL YOU DO NEXT WEEK?** This upcoming week I'm going to start reading the information over the assignment as soon as it comes out and hopefully have at least half of it done by the end of the week. Now that I have a physical copy of the book I'm going to start writing notes and highlighting useful information, hopefully this will lead to an improvement in quiz scores.

**PICK/TIP OF THE WEEK?** While I do like vim, I like text editors a lot more and prefer them in most cases. Text editors just make things look so nice and pretty and easy to read. I usually go through a couple iterations of code changes/rewriting so having the bility to quickly delete, undo, and copy-paste simply and quickly is a big plus. Personally, Sublime is my text editor of choice and a super useful thing is install SFTP/FTP package to allow for ssh-ing and accessing remote files directly. I'm pretty sure that most if not all text editors have a plugin of some sort that will do this and I highly recommend it, especially so when working on class assignments that must be done using lab machines. Being able to access files and edit them easily in the comfort of your home, instead of having to go to the lab, is amazing. The easiest way to add the SFTP/FTP packing in Sublime that I've found is by installing [wbond](https://wbond.net/sublime_packages/sftp). Installing the free trail works just fine as long as you don't mind the occassional pop-up telling you to actually buy it! If that's not your style there's also [this site](http://benznext.com/2016/04/tutorial-use-sublime-text-ssh/) that shows you multiple ways to add this capability for Sublime. :)
