---
layout: post
title: Final Week!
published: false
---

**THE EXPERIENCE:** The end of the semester is growing closer and closer and I can't wait for it to be over. SWE has been an experience and I've learned a lot. My biggest regret is not waiting another semester to take it, I feel like I couldn't do as many interviews as I otherwise would have because of quizzes and missing half a week for Grace Hopper. I have learned python in more depth than I would have ever had on my own and learning all these small details is definitely something I feel is worthwhile about classes Downing teaches. The structure of the class, in terms of how exams work, has changed since I last took OOP and I like the current structure more. It's nice to quickly see how you are doing and be able to tell how far you are in the coding section of the exams. I also like how the projects are built to cover an entire stack, both the front and back-ends as well as the setup required to create a website. I feel like this is very unique to SWE and no other class I have taken at UT has allowed me to get such view of the process. My internship this past summer was kind of fullstack but didn't have as much breadth as the SWE setup was. However, there were times when the extra setup felt a lot like busy work and got annoying (Collatz especially). I understood that all the setup was to help make the project setup resemble the industry, however, I felt like some of this meaning was lost since the scope of the project was so small.

Overall, SWE is a pretty alright class. It's one of those where you get out as much as you put in. We learn a lot of different tools that help make the flow resemble the industry even though some of the tools are very outdated and over-simplified versions. Lectures are completely unrelated from the projects and are mainly focused towards learning Python and then some software engineering topics. I do wish though that we had gotten more talks about the web stack or how on a more technical level how things like flask routing works. While I do understand how to use them, a lot of it still feels too abstract and almost magical to me. I would 110% reccomend this class to those who have not yet have an internship experience under their belt because the workflow of projects will give them some insight on what the industry is like. I would, however, say to NOT take it during fall semester of senior year because the class is MWF and usually it's best to schedule on-site interviews on Fridays and you could end up missing a lot of class, or feeling restricted to doing more interviews. If you already have a lot of web developement knowledge, know Python and know SQL then I would say the class will probably be easy and not worth as much. However, if you don't have much knowledge, SWE is a good introductory course to get a feel for and dive into seeing how webdev works.
