---
layout: post
title: Week 2!
published: true
---

**WHAT DID YOU DO THIS PAST WEEK?** Trying to settle into school again, getting a taste of lacking sleep, and regretting not starting on work earlier, and regretting not going to the football game. I spent a couple hours writing down all my due dates/exams for classes and putting them on my calendar. I'm determined to stay on track and get organized this semester. I started organzing my inbox after realizing that too many emails were getting routing to the wrong folders. Still trying to figure out if I want to do more full-time interviews and risk missing more class days. I already know I'm missing 3 SWE classes, one for an interview and two for Grace Hopper.

**WHAT'S IN YOUR WAY?** My dimly lit apartment. It's so dimly lit. It's so sad. The apartment is facing inside the building and barely gets any sunlight. Having windows just makes me more depressed because there's an expectation of sunlight when there isn't any. As a result I can't study at the apartment. So I need to find a good place to study that isn't home or GDC (too many people I know to get distracted by). I've been trying to find some good places but haven't found the perfect place yet. Besides that, getting organized. Trying to catch up and remind myself that yes I do have an online class. And that while the online class has no set due dates, I need to stay on track or risk derailing my semester.

**WHAT WILL YOU DO NEXT WEEK?** I'm going to spend the rest of today catching up on all my work and getting back up to speed. I want to finish organizing all my things and assignments so I can get up-to-date. I'm planning on starting work earlier and trying out the pomodoro technique where you work for 25 and take a 5 minute break. I'm hoping that this will help me get more things done and help me work for longer without getting burned out. I have a couple starter projects due this week (SWE + Big Data) I need to finish and other projects/exams due the next week that I need to start on (Chemistry exam, Game Tech project).

**WHAT'S MY EXPERIENCE OF THE CLASS?** Class has been as expected. I did forget how slow-moving the class was. Not that I hate it, I'm more excited to get to the nitty gritty details of Python and having time to digest/understand the language. Experienced cold-calling this past week but it wasn't too bad which is good. It made me realize how much I still need to work on being more confident in my answers and less meek about what I should be saying. I still get highly nervous and freeze when I'm called on, but I've realized that I need to calm down. After all, most people don't care as they're stressing out with their own lives anyway.

**PICK/TIP OF THE WEEK?:** If you're interested in learning or getting an intro to machine learning, I would highly reccomend the [Coursera course here](https://www.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning). Over the summer my manager reccomended it to me as a way to pick up some basic ML topics, he said he had used it himself to get started and it creates a pretty good base. I've started some of it and I do think it's really easy to understand as the examples are simple and straightforward. It's a nice way to get some understanding on the basic terminology and see if ML piques your interest enough to take a class.
