---
layout: post
title: Technology and Security
published: true
---
Technology has completely changed how we live and these changes have affected how the government operates as well. Tech has both positive and negative effects on national security. On the positive side, accessing information and communication is now faster than ever before. On the other side, however, it has opened a whole new area that the government must be mindful about: the online sphere. 

The government needs to be careful about online security threats/attacks as more and more of our information and businesses move online. Tech has been a blessing for both sides: it has made our lives easier but has also made it easier for illegal and shady businesses to carry out their work. Tracks are much easier to cover online than they are in-person. If we don't properly secure our national secrets, our enemies can manipulate our security flaws to hurt us. As a result, over the years, governmental surveillance has increased in the name of national security. This has raised alarm in the general public and has increased strain as the population feels like the government is watching too much. Most people do not want or trust the government to watch their every move, however, they still want the government to protect them from foreign threats. But the only way to completely secure the online sphere is more-or-less complete surveillance. This turns into a trade-off between security and privacy. How much privacy we are willing to give up for security?

It also doesn't help that many people do not understand the basics about technology. This makes it harder for the government to do work when the general public becomes fearful at everything the government does. As technology advances, our country will need to stay at the forefront of technology or risk falling behind and becoming less effective/powerful. We need to empower the civilian population to undestand technology. This will both lessen fear and help promote advancement.

Otherwise, if these misunderstandings and fear continue, it will become harder and harder for the government to be effective in securing our borders. We might end up in a place where the government will need to be even more covert about what they do  and laws that prevents us from knowing what they are doing. It is also possible that if we do increase our knowledge about tech, after a certain point, the general public will become more normalized to the increased governmental surveillance. 
