---
layout: post
title: Being a Good Neighboor
published: true
---

To me, being a good neighbor means being a good person. In the social aspect, it means respecting the beliefs and values of other people around me. It means not belittling someone for what they believe in. If there is a disagreement, then to have an open discussion to try to see the viewpoint of the other person. If the disagreement can't be solved, then to just let it go. Socially, it also means to help others and be kind. I don't have to necessarily go out of my way to put everyone else's wants/needs in front of mind, but to help others when I can and when it isn't extremely intrusive to my life. Politically it means to be mindful of admitting when I do not understand or know about an issue. It means listening to those around me and reading up on news from reliable sources. It means checking my own facts before I explain to someone else what an issue is about. It is not slandering the other side but trying to be objective. From an environmental lens, it means taking small steps to help decrease the amount of consumption and waste I produce. None of these things have to be giant gestures, they can be many micro steps too. In all forms both in-person and virtually, it is important to be a good neighbor. It would be a pretty ideal world if everyone was a "good neighbor" to everyone else. It is important to try to be a kind person because little steps can help make the world a better place. If everyone stopped being kind to each other, the world would become an unhospitable place. There's already enough sadness and anger in the world today. Being positive to someone, even someone random could have rippling effects. Maybe just smiling at someone else is enough for them not to commit suicide that day. It is important to be a good neighbor because we don't know what everyone else is going through and so we should try to be more empathetic. 
