---
layout: post
title: The Future of Business
published: true
---

A company can show that they are ethical in many ways: through the product, production pipeline, culture, community involvement, etc. From the product perspective, an ethical company will build a product that helps a subset of people or the environment in some way. For instance, Palantir creates products that have been used to help better coordinate crisis response efforts. For the most part, as long as the product doesn't cause harm, it will be okay. No one should be exploited anywhere in the production pipeline of an ethical company. For example, factory workers should be treated and paid well. The other people the company works with should also be ethical and treat their people right too. The culture of an ethical company will be open and transparent. Employees are there to look out and help each other and the environment is not cut-throat or hyper-competitive. The employees will feel like they have a community at work and ideally be supportive of the company's mission statement. All employees, no matter how they are hired (full-time, part-time, contractors) will all be well-compensated through pay, health benefits, and time off. These companies should also be involved in their community. This can be any sort of involvement ranging from donations to non-profits to sponsoring city-wide events. The company should not be trying to evade taxes and pay up properly. The other companies and individuals associated with or that the ethical company does business with should also be ethical. For example, in an extreme case, a company would not be ethical if they did work for or with a group who is known to be involved with supporting labor or sex trafficking.

While the above details what I believe an ethical company should be, in practice it's hard to find a company who fits all these ideals. Slip-ups do occur. If an ethical company does slip, it is important that they take ownership of what they did wrong and not try to place blame on others. The company should admit their mistake and show efforts to try to fix what was wrong. Otherwise, if the company chooses to ignore the problem or blame others, they are not ethical.
