---
layout: post
title: Good Business Practices
published: true
---

Bug prevention is very important in software, especially so for those involved in areas like healthcare. There are many different types of practices and procedures that describe how to prevent bugs in products and I will discuss two: automated software testing and the zero-bug policy.

Dependencies are bound to occur and it is always important to ensure that the new or edited code does not negatively change how the software works. It is a good practice to have a testing environment that ensures that all assumptions and code written is correct. As more code is added, more tests should be written that covers as many cases as possible. By having a testing environment that automatically runs through all the test cases before code gets submitted to the main branch, we can better ensure that the software in production is, at the very least, working just as well as it always has been. Unit tests, integration tests, and functional tests should all be included in the testing environment. Unit tests are important to ensure each part of the code works individually. Integration tests ensure that all the parts work well together. And functional tests ensure that the whole system works well in situations that the users are expected to do. The testing environment, however, is limited to how well the included tests were written. If a test case is missed somewhere in the code and no one goes back to check and add it in, then the testing environment is incomplete and bugs can still be found in production.

Zero-bug policy means to "[strive] to eradicate all known bugs" (Hatoum). It does not mean to "bug-free code production" because this is impossible to be completely sure about unless the code is very, very simple (Hatoum). This policy outlines how a team should approach tackling bugs in order to prevent as many serious bugs from being overlooked as possible. The policy states that all bugs should be classified as critical issues, bugs, features, or improvements. The team should try to fix critical issues, then bugs, then features, then do improvements in that order. Critical issues should be addressed before anything else; as soon as a critical issue is identified, the team should fix it first before continuing anything else. Bugs, on the other hand, can wait until after the current job is finished. Features/improvements are to be placed in a backlog to be added once all critical issues/bugs are eradicated. This process works well to prevent bugs in production because fixing bugs come before adding any new functionality. This way there is no question of what type of work engineers should finish first. In an ideal world, the zero-bug policy would ensure that no bugs are forgotten. However, in the real world with pressing deadlines for new features, it is more than likley that bugs will be fixed alongside new functionality being added. Even if, let's say, the company follows the zero-bug policy to a T, it is still possible for bugs to get through if bugs never get identified. Problems can also arise if an issue is misidentified as a simple bug when it actually is a critical problem. For example, if there was some main issue that causes twenty other bugs is overlooked as a simple bug then the most accurate fix is not being implemented.

### MLA Citations

“Software Testing: A Culture of Quality.” *Atlassian*, www.atlassian.com/software-testing.

Hatoum, Sam. "Zero-Bug Software Development." *Medium*, 8 May 2016, medium.com/quality-faster/the-zero-bug-policy-b0bd987be684.
