---
layout: post
title: Social Media
published: true
---

I don't post on social media and keep the minimum amount of information allowed on it. I try to be really aware of the privacy concerns that come with posting everything online, however, I'm sure there are some parts that I could definitely improve on. I didn't open any social media accounts until the end of high school/beginning of college in order to keep in touch with friends. If it wasn't for this benefit, I would never go on social media. The only social media I really use is Facebook and Snapchat. While I don't post, however, I do have a tendancy to go on when I'm bored and scroll through Facebook. I do occassionally deactivate Facebook when I feel like I go on it too much, but I like to keep Messenger working because a lot of my group chats with friends and for classes are through Facebook. I feel like social media has helped me keep in touch and updated with a lot of my friends. The same goes with Snapchat. However, I do feel like it can be very detrimental being online so much doing nothing but scrolling. It can also create a pretty negative outlook if you focus on how much everyone else seems to be doing so much better than you are from the posts they make online. I definitely want to disengage myself further from Facebook. I feel like I should set a timelimit on how much I spend on Facebook.com or looking at Snapchat stories that does not apply when I'm on Messenger/sending people snaps. This way I don't end up accidentally spending hours scrolling or watching stories. If I did this, I feel like I'd have more time in my day and feel more productive overall.

